# Coda

Let me first start out by saying that the layout of the data in Ryan Pickering's GitHub was layed out very nicely in an easy to read way. His stats cvs was super clear to read and understand making the easy to see and duplicate. After a few weeks of working with data that was messy it was nice to see things layed out neatly. But that is not to say that there were not issues with the whole project in regards to technology and methodology. 

While I did not find any particular issues with his data in GitHub, I did find issues with his website as a whole. The website starts off nice and clean, but as you scroll down the page issues start appearing. For one, some of his graphs cover parts of his text and therefore you cannot read his explainations for that graph. This occurs in the regions and semantics section. There are also two graphs that appear to have erros and will not load, while I'm sure at the time of him posting this webpage they were working, they are no longer. 

The other weakness I found was in his methodology regarding the project. While his methodology section does explain the use of Google Trends and he acknowledges that these numbers are relative and subjective, he does not speak much about the how or why regarding the project. Another weakness I found was that he does not explain way he starts the search in 2004. I think that it is important to explain why you start at a certain date as it adds important information about what was going on at that time and why it is important to start there. I personally do not know why he picked 2004, there could be a number of reasons. For one it was an election year in Canada, therefore maybe it was part of the election retoric, the Assembly of First Nations (AFN) Report on Canada’s Dispute Resolution Plan to Compensate for Abuses in Indian Residential Schools begins discussing resolutions that year, the RCMP apologize for their involvement in residential schools are just a few of the events to happen in 2004. There are also events that occur before 2004 regarding residential schools so it would be good to note why that year was chosen. (I later found out that this is as far back as Google Trends goes. I think it would have been good to mention!)

In terms of my use of this data for the capstone project, I will be continuing his data and examinging it from his start date of 2004 until present. I certainly feel that the results more recently will coinside with political events, especially under Justin Trudeau who made Indigenous issues a main concern during his leadership. I would also like to break my analysis down further potentially focusing more on the political side of things versus Pickering who focused more on general trends. I decided this because it could offer some kind of evidence as to why there were spikes in searches in a more concrete way than Pickering's assumption that it was due to school research (which I'm not discounting, but he does not present any evidence to really back this up). Within Google Trends you can also see related topics and queries which I think is important to look at to be able to analyze the bigger picture of what is going on during that period of time based on related topics and queries (both are based on users that searched for a certain word/term also searched for the words/interests in the list). 

I think that this work can be updated every year to show trends in terms of how many people are searching this and thanks to Google Trends you can see the related topics and queries associated with that word search and time period which allows for different trends to be noticed.
