# Reflection

Six weeks has certainly flown by! It is crazy to think that just six weeks ago I really had no idea about anything related to digital humanities. Now, six weeks later I am really surprised with how much I have learnt. 

Starting with just the basics I think I am fully comfortable writing in Markdown and certainly see how it can be beneficial. For one, I now really enjoy how clean and simple it is. While I still wish in GitHub spell check worked, I have found it works in other places like Subline Text. When doing my Capstone project I did not even have to look at the Markdown “cheat sheet” to type up my findings which included links and images. 

I also learnt a lot about things like Command Line, pattern finding in text and visualizations. But it does not mean that I cannot learn more. In my Capstone project I had intended to create a website to host my findings (this was a last minute decision) but when trying to make one on GitHub using the Jekyll Now instructions, I could not figure out how to create new pages rather than posts. It was also difficult to preview my posts as they would take a while a to load versus just using a GitHub page which I could switch over to preview instantly. 

Regarding programs that I liked, I think annotate will really come in handy for me. Just being able to leave notes (even if private) when doing research will help me better keep track of my thought when doing readings.  It has also really made me think how I do research and what I can do to improve things. It has also taught me how to use visualization tools (Voyantools in particular) to help find patterns that may not be visible to eye when just reading a text. 

While there were things that I struggled with every week, I continuously felt accomplished when I would finally overcome them. In terms of weaknesses, I found that sometimes I would sometimes not fully understand what I was doing. There were weeks I wrote in my reflections that I had successfully done all the exercises but did not understand truly what I had done. Looking back now I should have used Slack more to ask questions about what things meant and why we were doing them. In terms of strengths, I found that I really pushed myself to complete the tasks and if I did get stuck, try to find a work around in order to complete it. The main driving factor was to be able to see my work come to life whether that was translating images to text, tagging text for Firefox or using visualization tools, it was really exciting for my work to load and show me visually what I had accomplished. 

This course will stay with me into a graduate studies as it really made me think how I do research and what I can do to improve things. It has also taught me how to use visualization tools to help find patterns that may not be visible to eye when just reading a text. 

I will certainly miss the connection with the group, being able to help and be helped on Slack and Hypothesis was really nice  and I found gave a more human aspect to a class that is solely online.  As an overall, I will certainly be looking out for digital humanities and projects that come out in the future. I will also be encouraging others to take this class to learn about a whole new side of history.
